**CS370 Portfolio Journal**

**1. Briefly explain the work that you did on this project: What code were you given? What code did you create yourself?**

For the project uploaded to this repository, I developed an intelligent agent that functions as the pirate player in a treasure hunt game. The goal of the game is to navigate from the top left of an 8x8 maze to the bottom right, where the treasure (goal) is located. The code for the treasure hunt game, code for experience replay, the AI's build model code, and a skeleton implementation for the training algorithm were all provided at the start of the project. My work focused on fully implementing a deep Q-learning algorithm to train the intelligent agent and allow it to eventually "solve" the Treasure Hunt game. Specifically, I translated pseudocode that represented the functionality of the training function, which for my project is called qtrain.

**2. Connect your learning from throughout this course to the larger field of computer science: What do computer scientists do and why does it matter? How do I approach a problem as a computer scientist? What are my ethcial responsibilites to the end user and the organization?**

My work on this project, and throughout this course in general, has taught me how computer science can be applied to solve complex problems utilizing advanced techniques, like deep Q-learning or reinforcement learning. By learning how to implement and manipulate different types of training algorithms, I was able to obtain experience in applying AI to solving concrete problems. This small peek into the world of emerging trends in computer science and artificial intelligence solidified to me that these evolving techniques can eventually be reliably used to solve complex problems in the real world. Computer scientists take big, complicated problems and provide users solutions to those in the form of software in an effort to improve the experience of their users. Breaking complex problems down into many smaller, solveable components and iteratively refining the developed solution is how I accomplish this. In addition to this, we as computer scientists have an ethical responsibility to our end users and our respective organizations in the form of ensuring that the solutions we create are fair, transparent, and are actively monitored to identify and remove potential biases. As AI and technology as a whole continue to evolve exponentially, the role of ethics will become even more critical in ensuring AI and other emerging technologies are created and implemented ethically and responsibly. 
